[Doc] Rewrite the placement group documentation (#33518)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/scheduling/placement-group.rst

.. _ray-placement-group-doc-ref:

Placement groups allow users to atomically reserve groups of resources across multiple nodes (i.e., gang scheduling).
They can be then used to schedule Ray tasks and actors packed as close as possible for locality (PACK), or spread apart 
(SPREAD). Placement groups are generally used for gang-scheduling actors, but also support tasks.

Here are some real-world use cases:

> - **Machine Learning Training**: :ref:`Ray Train <train-docs>` uses the placement group APIs enables gang scheduling by reserving a group of resources across Ray cluster. Gang scheduling is a critical technique to enable all-or-nothing scheduling for deep learning training. 

Author: Distributed Training (e.g., :ref:`Ray Train <train-docs>`) -> used this sentence instead

- Placement groups are represented by a list of bundles. For example, ``{"CPU": 1} * 4`` means you'd like to reserve 4 bundles of 1 CPU (i.e., it reserves 4 CPUs).
- Bundles are then placed according to the :ref:`placement strategies <pgroup-strategy>` across nodes on the cluster.
- After the placement group is created, tasks or actors can be then scheduled according to the placement group and even on individual bundles.

Schedule a Placement Group (Reserve Resources)
----------------------------------------------

Ray placement group can be created by the ``ray.util.placement_group`` API. Placement groups take in a list of bundles and a :ref:`placement strategy <pgroup-strategy>`. 
Note that each bundle must be able to fit on a single node on the Ray cluster.
For example, if you only have a 8 CPU node, and if you have a bundle that requires ``{"CPU": 9}``,
this bundle cannot be scheduled.

Bundles are specified by a list of dictionaries, e.g., ``[{"CPU": 1}, {"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}]``).

- ``CPU`` will correspond with ``num_cpus`` as used in ``ray.remote``
- ``GPU`` will correspond with ``num_gpus`` as used in ``ray.remote``

> - Other resources will correspond with ``resources`` as used in ``ray.remote`` (E.g., ``ray.init(resources={"disk": 1})`` can have a bundle of ``{"disk": 1}``).

Author: added

.. _ray-placement-group-doc-ref:

Placement groups allow users to atomically reserve groups of resources across multiple nodes (i.e., gang scheduling).
They can be then used to schedule Ray tasks and actors packed as close as possible for locality (PACK), or spread apart 
(SPREAD). Placement groups are generally used for gang-scheduling actors, but also support tasks.

Here are some real-world use cases:

- **Distributed Machine Learning Training**: Distributed Training (e.g., :ref:`Ray Train <train-docs>`) uses the placement group APIs enables gang scheduling by reserving a group of resources across Ray cluster. Gang scheduling is a critical technique to enable all-or-nothing scheduling for deep learning training. 

> - **Hyperparameter Tuning**: Hyperparameter tuning (e.g., :ref:`Ray Tune <tune-main>`) uses the placement group APIs to reserve a group of resources for each trial, which mitigates the risk of resource deadlock among trials (In a given machine learning training task, each trial only has a partial schedule of training workers allocated to it. As a result, none of the trials can fully schedule all of the available workers for training).

Reviewer: Yea, let's get an eye from ML to make sure it's accurate.

> - **Hyperparameter Tuning**: Hyperparameter tuning (e.g., :ref:`Ray Tune <tune-main>`) uses the placement group APIs to reserve a group of resources for each trial, which mitigates the risk of resource deadlock among trials (In a given machine learning training task, each trial only has a partial schedule of training workers allocated to it. As a result, none of the trials can fully schedule all of the available workers for training).

Author: thanks for the suggestion! Good to learn the use case for me lol

.. _ray-placement-group-doc-ref:

Placement groups allow users to atomically reserve groups of resources across multiple nodes (i.e., gang scheduling).
They can be then used to schedule Ray tasks and actors packed as close as possible for locality (PACK), or spread apart 
(SPREAD). Placement groups are generally used for gang-scheduling actors, but also support tasks.

Here are some real-world use cases:

- **Distributed Machine Learning Training**: Distributed Training (e.g., :ref:`Ray Train <train-docs>` and :ref:`Ray Tune <tune-main>`) uses the placement group APIs to enable gang scheduling. In these settings, all resources for a trial must be available at the same time. Gang scheduling is a critical technique to enable all-or-nothing scheduling for deep learning training. 

> - **Fault tolerance in distributed training**: Placement groups can be used to configure fault tolerance. In Ray Tune, it can be beneficial to pack related resources from a single trial together, so that a node failure impacts a low number of trials. In libraries that support elastic training (e.g. XGBoost-Ray), spreading the resources across multiple nodes can help to ensure training can be continued even when a node dies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fault tolerance in distributed training**: Placement groups can be used to configure fault tolerance. In Ray Tune, it can be beneficial to pack related resources from a single trial together, so that a node failure impacts a low number of trials. In libraries that support elastic training (e.g., XGBoost-Ray), spreading the resources across multiple nodes can help to ensure that training continues even when a node dies.
```

Reviewer 2: Is the term "all-or-nothing scheduling" a known term for this audience? If not, a brief definition and reason to use it would be helpful. I'm new to the term, but something like, "Gang scheduling is a technique where multiple related tasks or processes are scheduled to run simultaneously on a group of nodes to improve system throughput by maximizing the utilization of available resources and reducing communication overheads. Gang scheduling needs to schedule all nodes, otherwise it is not effective."

Author: Hmm IIUC  this is not the purpose of gang scheduling for distributed training. @krfricke can you tell me let the purpose of gang scheduling in distributed training? Is it to have up-to-dates weights for all of training workers or sth like that?

      # Initialize Ray.
      import ray

>       # 2 CPUs and 2 GPUs bundles.

Author: good catch!

      ray::PlacementGroup pg = ray::CreatePlacementGroup(options);

> You can block your program until the placement group is ready using the :func:`ready <ray.util.placement_group.PlacementGroup.ready>`.  (compatible with ``ray.get``) or :func:`ready <ray.util.placement_group.PlacementGroup.wait>` (block the program until the placement group is ready) API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can block your program until the placement group is ready using :func:`ready <ray.util.placement_group.PlacementGroup.ready>` (compatible with ``ray.get``), or :func:`ready <ray.util.placement_group.PlacementGroup.wait>` (which blocks the program until the placement group is ready) API. 
```

Reviewer: Actually it's ready and wait, not ready and ready.

> **It is recommended to verify placement groups are ready** before using them to schedule tasks and actors. 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps you want to add the reason why. What are you trying to avoid?

      ray::PlacementGroup pg = ray::CreatePlacementGroup(options);

Placement group scheduling is asynchronous. The `ray.util.placement_group` returns immediately. You can block your program until
the placement group is ready using the `ready` (compatible with ``ray.get``) or `wait` (block the program until the placement group is ready) API. 
**It is recommended to verify placement groups are ready** before using it to schedule tasks and actors. 

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. code-block:: python

      # Wait until placement group is created.

>       ray.get(pg.ready(), timeout=10)

Author: Imo, for placement group, we should always have timeout otherwise it can hang forever without errors.

        std::cout << group.GetName() << std::endl;
      }

> Let's verify the placement group is successfully created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that the placement group is successfully created.
```

.. code-block:: bash

>   # This API is only available when you download ray via `pip install "ray[default]"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # This API is only available when you download Ray via `pip install "ray[default]"`
```

  ray list placement-groups

.. code-block:: bash

  ======== List: 2023-04-07 01:15:05.682519 ========
  Stats:
  ------------------------------
  Total: 1

  Table:
  ------------------------------
      PLACEMENT_GROUP_ID                    NAME      CREATOR_JOB_ID  STATE
  0  3cd6174711f47c14132155039c0501000000                  01000000  CREATED

> Now the placement group is successfully created! This means out of ``{"CPU": 2, "GPU": 2}`` resources, the placement group reserves ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}``. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The placement group is successfully created. Out of the ``{"CPU": 2, "GPU": 2}`` resources, the placement group reserves ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}``. 
```

> The reserved resources cannot be used unless tasks or actors are scheduled with a placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reserved resources can only be used when you schedule tasks or actors with a placement group.
```

> The diagram below demonstrates 1 CPU and 1 GPU bundle has been reserved by the placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The diagram below demonstrates 1 CPU and 1 GPU bundle that has been reserved by the placement group.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  Resources
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Usage:
  0.0/2.0 CPU (0.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
  0.0/2.0 GPU (0.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
  0B/3.46GiB memory
  0B/1.73GiB object_store_memory

  Demands:
  {'CPU': 1.0} * 1, {'GPU': 2.0} * 1 (PACK): 1+ pending placement groups <--- 1 placement group is pending creation.

The current cluster has ``{"CPU": 2, "GPU": 2}``. We already created a ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}`` bundle, so there's only ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}`` left in the cluster.
If we create 2 bundles ``{"CPU": 1}, {"GPU": 2}``, we can create a first bundle successfully, but can't schedule the second bundle.
Since we cannot create every bundle to the cluster, placement group won't be created including the ``{"CPU": 1}`` bundle.

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_2.png
    :align: center

When the placement group cannot be scheduled in any way, it is called "infeasible". 
Imagine you schedule ``{"CPU": 4}`` bundle, but you only have a single node with 2 CPUs. There's no way to create this bundle in your cluster.

> The Ray Autoscaler is aware of placement groups, and auto-scale the cluster to ensure pending groups can be placed as needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ray Autoscaler is aware of placement groups, and auto-scales the cluster to ensure pending groups can be placed as needed. 
```

        std::cout << group.GetName() << std::endl;
      }

Let's verify the placement group is successfully created.

.. code-block:: bash

  # This API is only available when you download Ray via `pip install "ray[default]"`
  ray list placement-groups

.. code-block:: bash

  ======== List: 2023-04-07 01:15:05.682519 ========
  Stats:
  ------------------------------
  Total: 1

  Table:
  ------------------------------
      PLACEMENT_GROUP_ID                    NAME      CREATOR_JOB_ID  STATE
  0  3cd6174711f47c14132155039c0501000000                  01000000  CREATED

The placement group is successfully created. Out of the ``{"CPU": 2, "GPU": 2}`` resources, the placement group reserves ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}``. 
The reserved resources can only be used when you schedule tasks or actors with a placement group.
The diagram below demonstrates 1 CPU and 1 GPU bundle that has been reserved by the placement group.

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_1.png
    :align: center

> Placement groups are atomically created - meaning that if there exists a bundle that cannot fit in any of the current nodes, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Placement groups are atomically created; if a bundle cannot fit in any of the current nodes, 
```

> then the entire placement group will not be ready and no resources are reserved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the entire placement group is not ready and no resources are reserved.
```

> To see what this means, let's create another placement group that requires ``{"CPU":1}, {"GPU": 2}`` (2 bundles).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To illustrate, let's create another placement group that requires ``{"CPU":1}, {"GPU": 2}`` (2 bundles).
```

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_example.py
        :language: python
        :start-after: __create_pg_failed_start__
        :end-before: __create_pg_failed_end__

You can verify the new placement group is pending creation.

.. code-block:: bash

  # This API is only available when you download Ray via `pip install "ray[default]"`
  ray list placement-groups

.. code-block:: bash

  ======== List: 2023-04-07 01:16:23.733410 ========
  Stats:
  ------------------------------
  Total: 2

  Table:
  ------------------------------
      PLACEMENT_GROUP_ID                    NAME      CREATOR_JOB_ID  STATE
  0  3cd6174711f47c14132155039c0501000000                  01000000  CREATED
  1  e1b043bebc751c3081bddc24834d01000000                  01000000  PENDING <---- the new placement group.

> You can also verify ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 2}`` bundles cannot be allocated from ``ray status`` CLI command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also verify that the ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 2}`` bundles cannot be allocated, using the ``ray status`` CLI command.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  Resources
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Usage:
  0.0/2.0 CPU (0.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
  0.0/2.0 GPU (0.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
  0B/3.46GiB memory
  0B/1.73GiB object_store_memory

  Demands:
  {'CPU': 1.0} * 1, {'GPU': 2.0} * 1 (PACK): 1+ pending placement groups <--- 1 placement group is pending creation.

> The current cluster has ``{"CPU": 2, "GPU": 2}``. We already created a ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}`` bundle, so there's only ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}`` left in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current cluster has ``{"CPU": 2, "GPU": 2}``. We already created a ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}`` bundle, so only ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU": 1}`` is left in the cluster.
```

If we create 2 bundles ``{"CPU": 1}, {"GPU": 2}``, we can create a first bundle successfully, but can't schedule the second bundle.

> Since we cannot create every bundle to the cluster, placement group won't be created including the ``{"CPU": 1}`` bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we cannot create every bundle on the cluster, the placement group is not created, including the ``{"CPU": 1}`` bundle.
```

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_2.png
    :align: center

When the placement group cannot be scheduled in any way, it is called "infeasible". 
Imagine you schedule ``{"CPU": 4}`` bundle, but you only have a single node with 2 CPUs. There's no way to create this bundle in your cluster.
The Ray Autoscaler is aware of placement groups, and auto-scales the cluster to ensure pending groups can be placed as needed. 

If Ray Autoscaler cannot provide resources to schedule a placement group, Ray does *not* print a warning about infeasible groups and tasks and actors that use the groups. 
You can observe the scheduling state of the placement group from the :ref:`dashboard or state APIs <ray-placement-group-observability-ref>`.

.. _ray-placement-group-schedule-tasks-actors-ref:

Schedule Tasks and Actors to Placement Groups (Use Reserved Resources)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

> In the previous section, we created a placement group that reserves ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU: 1"}`` from a 2 CPU and 2 GPU node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous section, we created a placement group that reserved ``{"CPU": 1, "GPU: 1"}`` from a 2 CPU and 2 GPU node.
```

        std::cout << group.GetName() << std::endl;
      }

Placement groups are atomically created - meaning that if there exists a bundle that cannot fit in any of the current nodes, then the entire placement group will not be ready. 

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. code-block:: python

      import ray
      # 2 CPUs and 2 GPUs bundles.
      ray.init(num_cpus=1, num_gpus=1)

      # The second bundle {GPU: 2} cannot be satisfied. Since the placement group
      # scheduling is atomic this won't be ready until there will be other 

>       # node that has more than 2 GPUs.

Author: changed it to >= 2 GPUs

>       pg = placement_group([{"CPU": 1}, {"GPU": 2}], strategy="STRICT_PACK")

Author: Agreed. Actually I just forgot to delete the code after copy/paste

In this case, since the actor uses 1 CPU, there's remaining 1 GPU from the bundle. 
You can verify this from the CLI command ``ray status``.

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  SANG-TODO.

Since we have a remaining 1 GPU, let's create a new actor that requires 1 GPU.
This time, we will also specify the ``placement_group_bundle_index``. Each bundle is given an "index" within the placement group.
E.g., A placement group of 2 bundles ``[{"CPU": 1}, {"GPU": 1}]`` will have index 0 bundle ``{"CPU": 1}`` 
and index 1 bundle ``{"GPU": 1}``. Since we only have 1 bundle, we will only have index 0. If you don't specify a bundle, the actor/task
will be scheduled on a random bundle that have the unallocated reserved resources.

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_example.py
        :language: python
        :start-after: __schedule_pg_3_start__
        :end-before: __schedule_pg_3_end__

We succeeds to schedule the GPU actor! You can verify the reserved resources are all used from the ``ray status`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  SANG-TODO.

.. note::

>   By default, Ray task requires 1 CPU and Ray actor uses 0 CPU. But an actor temporarily uses 1 CPU to be "placed", meaning it uses 1 CPU until it is scheduled.

Author: why is that? Is it because of the bug it gets out of the pg?

      RAY_REMOTE(&Counter::Ping, &Counter::GetValue, CreateCounter);

      // Create GPU actors on a gpu bundle.
      for (int index = 0; index < 1; index++) {
        ray::Actor(CreateCounter)
          .SetPlacementGroup(pg, 0)
          .Remote(1);
      }

> In Ray, actor requires 1 CPU to be scheduled, and once it is created, it occupies 0 CPU.

Author: I think it is not a good idea to assume people already read that doc. And it is a pretty common mistake, so I prefer to have this explained. If you have a link to the actor page, that also works.

> In Ray, actor requires 1 CPU to be scheduled, and once it is created, it occupies 0 CPU.

Reviewer: Can we then add a sentence saying relying on this default resource requirement is not recommended, please always set num_cpus explicitly. You can link to https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/resources.html#specifying-task-or-actor-resource-requirements

        scheduling_strategy=PlacementGroupSchedulingStrategy(
          placement_group=pg,
          placement_group_bundle_index=0,
        )
      ).remote()

      # Verify gpu actor is scheduled.
      ray.get(actor.ready.remote(), timeout=10)

We succeeds to schedule the GPU actor! You can verify the reserved resources are all used from the ``ray status`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  SANG-TODO.

.. note::

  By default, Ray task requires 1 CPU and Ray actor uses 0 CPU. But an actor temporarily uses 1 CPU to be "placed", meaning it uses 1 CPU until it is scheduled.

Remove Placement Groups (Free Reserved Resources)
-------------------------------------------------

By default, a placement group's lifetime is scoped to a driver that creates a placement group 
(unless you make it a :ref:`detached placement group <placement-group-detached>`). When the placement group is created from
a :ref:`detached actor <actor-lifetimes>`, the lifetime is scoped to a detached actor.
In Ray, driver means the Python script that calls ``ray.init``.

Reserved resources (bundles) from the placement group is automatically freed when a driver or detached actor

> that creates placement group exits. If you'd like to free the reserved resources, you can also remove the placement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that creates placement group exits. If you'd like to free the reserved resources manually, you can also remove the placement
```

> group using ``remove_placement_group`` API (note that it is also an asynchronous API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
group using :func:`remove_placement_group <ray.util.remove_placement_group>` API (note that it is also an asynchronous API).
```

      RAY_REMOTE(&Counter::Ping, &Counter::GetValue, CreateCounter);

      // Create GPU actors on a gpu bundle.
      for (int index = 0; index < 1; index++) {
        ray::Actor(CreateCounter)
          .SetPlacementGroup(pg, 0)
          .Remote(1);
      }

.. note::

>   When you use an actor with a placement group, make sure to always specify ``num_cpus``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When you use an actor with a placement group, always specify ``num_cpus``.
```

>   When you specify no resources (e.g., ``num_cpus=0``), a placement group option will be ignored,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When you don't specify (e.g., ``num_cpus=0``), a placement group option is ignored,
```

>   meaning the task and actor won't use the reserved resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and the task and actor doesn't use the reserved resources.
```

  
  Note that by default (without any argument to ``ray.remote``),

  - Ray task requires 1 CPU
  - Ray actor requires 1 CPU when it is scheduled. But after it is created, it occupies 0 CPU.

  This means when scheduling an actor without resource requirements and a placement group, the placement group has to be created (since it requires 1 CPU to be scheduled).

>   However, when the actor is created, it will ignore the placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  However, when the actor is created, it ignores the placement group.
```

> The actor is scheduled now! One bundle can be used by multiple tasks and actors (i.e., bundle to task/actor is one to many relationships). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The actor is scheduled now! One bundle can be used by multiple tasks and actors (i.e., the bundle to task (or actor) is a one-to-many relationship). 
```

In this case, since the actor uses 1 CPU, there's a remaining 1 GPU from the bundle. 
You can verify this from the CLI command ``ray status``. You can see the 1 CPU is reserved by the placement group, and 1.0 is used (by the actor we created).

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  Resources
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Usage:
  1.0/2.0 CPU (1.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups) <---
  0.0/2.0 GPU (0.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
  0B/4.29GiB memory
  0B/2.00GiB object_store_memory

  Demands:
  (no resource demands)

> You can also verify the actor is created using ``ray list actors``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also verify the actor is created using ``ray list actors``.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  # This API is only available when you download Ray via `pip install "ray[default]"`
  ray list actors --detail

.. code-block:: bash

  -   actor_id: b5c990f135a7b32bfbb05e1701000000
      class_name: Actor
      death_cause: null
      is_detached: false
      job_id: '01000000'
      name: ''
      node_id: b552ca3009081c9de857a31e529d248ba051a4d3aeece7135dde8427
      pid: 8795
      placement_group_id: d2e660ac256db230dbe516127c4a01000000 <------
      ray_namespace: e5b19111-306c-4cd8-9e4f-4b13d42dff86
      repr_name: ''
      required_resources:
          CPU_group_d2e660ac256db230dbe516127c4a01000000: 1.0
      serialized_runtime_env: '{}'
      state: ALIVE

> Since we have a remaining 1 GPU, let's create a new actor that requires 1 GPU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since 1 GPU remains, let's create a new actor that requires 1 GPU.
```

> This time, we will also specify the ``placement_group_bundle_index``. Each bundle is given an "index" within the placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This time, we also specify the ``placement_group_bundle_index``. Each bundle is given an "index" within the placement group.
```

E.g., A placement group of 2 bundles ``[{"CPU": 1}, {"GPU": 1}]`` will have index 0 bundle ``{"CPU": 1}`` 

> and index 1 bundle ``{"GPU": 1}``. Since we only have 1 bundle, we will only have index 0. If you don't specify a bundle, the actor/task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and index 1 bundle ``{"GPU": 1}``. Since we only have 1 bundle, we only have index 0. If you don't specify a bundle, the actor (or task)
```

will be scheduled on a random bundle that have the unallocated reserved resources.

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_example.py
        :language: python
        :start-after: __schedule_pg_3_start__
        :end-before: __schedule_pg_3_end__

> We succeed to schedule the GPU actor! The below image describes 2 actors scheduled into the placement group. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We succeeded on scheduling the GPU actor! The below image describes 2 actors scheduled into the placement group. 
```

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_3.png
    :align: center

> You can also verify the reserved resources are all used from the ``ray status`` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also verify that the reserved resources are all used, with the ``ray status`` command.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  ray status

.. code-block:: bash

  Resources
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Usage:
  1.0/2.0 CPU (1.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
  1.0/2.0 GPU (1.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups) <----
  0B/4.29GiB memory
  0B/2.00GiB object_store_memory

.. _pgroup-strategy:

Placement Strategy
------------------

One of the features the placement group provides is to add placement constraints among bundles.

For example, you'd like to pack your bundles to the same
node or spread out to multiple nodes as much as possible. You can specify the strategy via ``strategy`` argument.
This way, you can make sure your actors and tasks can be scheduled with certain placement constraints.

> The below example create a placement group with 2 bundles with a STRICT_PACK strategy,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below creates a placement group with 2 bundles with a STRICT_PACK strategy,
```

> meaning both bundle has to be created in the same node, otherwise, the placement group cannot be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
both bundles have to be created in the same node, otherwise, the placement group cannot be created.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_example.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __strategy_pg_start__
    :end-before: __strategy_pg_end__

> To make it easy to understand, let's see the image examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The below image demonstrates the PACK policy. You can see 3 of ``{"CPU": 2}`` bundles are located in the same node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image below demonstrates the PACK policy. Notice that three of ``{"CPU": 2}`` bundles are located in the same node.
```

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_4.png
    :align: center

The below image demonstrates the SPREAD policy. You can see 3 of ``{"CPU": 2}`` bundles are located in 3 different nodes.

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_5.png
    :align: center

> Ray currently supports the following placement group strategies. The default scheduling policy is ``PACK``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray supports four placement group strategies. The default scheduling policy is ``PACK``.
```

**STRICT_PACK**

All bundles must be placed into a single node on the cluster. It is useful when you want to maximize the locality.

**PACK**

> All provided bundles are packed onto a single node on a best-effort basis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All provided bundles are packed onto a single node on a best-effort basis.
```

> If strict packing is not feasible (i.e., some bundles do not fit on the node), bundles can be placed onto other nodes nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If strict packing is not feasible (i.e., some bundles do not fit on the node), bundles can be placed onto other nodes.
```

Reviewer 2: I assume "nodes nodes" was a typo. Please ignore if this was intentional.

**STRICT_SPREAD**

Each bundle must be scheduled in a separate node.

**SPREAD**

> Each bundle will be spread onto separate nodes on a best effort basis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each bundle is spread onto separate nodes on a best-effort basis.
```

If strict spreading is not feasible, bundles can be placed overlapping nodes.

Remove Placement Groups (Free Reserved Resources)
-------------------------------------------------

> By default, a placement group's lifetime is scoped to a driver that creates a placement group 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, a placement group's lifetime is scoped to the driver that creates placement groups 
```

(unless you make it a :ref:`detached placement group <placement-group-detached>`). When the placement group is created from

> a :ref:`detached actor <actor-lifetimes>`, the lifetime is scoped to a detached actor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a :ref:`detached actor <actor-lifetimes>`, the lifetime is scoped to the detached actor.
```

In Ray, driver means the Python script that calls ``ray.init``.

Reserved resources (bundles) from the placement group is automatically freed when a driver or detached actor

> that creates placement group exits. If you'd like to free the reserved resources manually, you can also remove the placement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that creates placement group exits. To free the reserved resources manually, you can also remove the placement
```

> group using :func:`remove_placement_group <ray.util.remove_placement_group>` API (note that it is also an asynchronous API).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
group using the :func:`remove_placement_group <ray.util.remove_placement_group>` API (which is also an asynchronous API).
```

      ray::PlacementGroup removed_placement_group = ray::GetPlacementGroup(placement_group.GetID());
      assert(removed_placement_group.GetState(), ray::PlacementGroupState::REMOVED);

.. _ray-placement-group-observability-ref:

Observe and Debug Placement Groups
----------------------------------

Ray provides several useful tools to inspect the placement group states and resource usage.

- **Ray Status** is a CLI tool to see the resource usage and the scheduling resource requirement of the placement groups.
- **Ray Dashboard** is a UI tool to inspect placement group states.
- **Ray State API** is a CLI to inspect placement group states.

> .. tabbed:: Ray Status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tabbed:: ray status
```

Author: ray status (CLI)

  .. note::

    Ray dashboard is only available when Ray is installed with ``pip install "ray[default]"``.

.. tabbed:: Ray State API

  :ref:`Ray state API <state-api-overview-ref>` is a CLI tool to inspect the state of Ray resources (tasks, actors, placement groups, etc.). 

  ``ray list placement-groups`` provides the metadata and the scheduling state of the placement group.
  ``ray list placement-groups --detail`` provides stats and scheduling state in a greater detail.

  .. note::

    State API is only available when Ray is installed with ``pip install "ray[default]"``

Inspect Placement Group Scheduling State
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the above tools, you can see the state of the placement group. The definition of states are specified in the following files.

- `High level state <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/03a9d2166988b16b7cbf51dac0e6e586455b28d8/src/ray/protobuf/gcs.proto#L579>`_
- `Details <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/03a9d2166988b16b7cbf51dac0e6e586455b28d8/src/ray/protobuf/gcs.proto#L524>`_

SANG-TODO Diagrams

.. _pgroup-strategy:

> Placement Strategy

Reviewer: I feel it should be above troubleshooting

- **Ray State API** is a CLI to inspect placement group states.

.. tabbed:: Ray Status

  The CLI command ``ray status`` provides the autoscaling status of the cluster. 
  It provides the "resource demands" from unscheduled placement groups as well as the resource reservation status.

  SANG-TODO images

.. tabbed:: Dashboard

  :ref:`The dashboard job view <dash-jobs-view>` provides the placement group table that displays the scheduling state and metadata of the placement group.

  .. note::

    Ray dashboard is only available when Ray is installed with ``pip install "ray[default]"``.

.. tabbed:: Ray State API

  :ref:`Ray state API <state-api-overview-ref>` is a CLI tool to inspect the state of Ray resources (tasks, actors, placement groups, etc.). 

  ``ray list placement-groups`` provides the metadata and the scheduling state of the placement group.
  ``ray list placement-groups --detail`` provides stats and scheduling state in a greater detail.

  .. note::

    State API is only available when Ray is installed with ``pip install "ray[default]"``

Inspect Placement Group Scheduling State
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> From the above tools, you can see the state of the placement group. The definition of states are specified in the following files.

Reviewer: lets have a diagram for the state machine?

Author: will do

- `High level state <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/03a9d2166988b16b7cbf51dac0e6e586455b28d8/src/ray/protobuf/gcs.proto#L579>`_
- `Details <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/03a9d2166988b16b7cbf51dac0e6e586455b28d8/src/ray/protobuf/gcs.proto#L524>`_

.. _pgroup-strategy:

> [Advanced] Placment Strategy

Reviewer: is it really advanced?

Author: Hmm yeah since it is one of the core features of the API, we should just consider as non advanced. fixed.

----------------------------

Often, you'd like to reserve bundles with placement constraints. For example, you'd like to pack your bundles to the same
node or spread out to multiple nodes as much as possible.

Ray currently supports the following placement group strategies. The default scheduling policy is ``PACK``:

**STRICT_PACK**

All bundles must be placed into a single node on the cluster. It is useful when you want to maximize the locality.

**PACK**

All provided bundles are packed onto a single node on a best-effort basis.
If strict packing is not feasible (i.e., some bundles do not fit on the node), bundles can be placed onto other nodes nodes.

**STRICT_SPREAD**

Each bundle must be scheduled in a separate node.

**SPREAD**

Each bundle will be spread onto separate nodes on a best effort basis.
If strict spreading is not feasible, bundles can be placed overlapping nodes.

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. code-block:: python

      # Reserve a placement group of 2 bundles
      # that have to be packed on the same node.
      pg = placement_group([{"CPU": 1}, {"GPU": 1}], strategy="STRICT_PACK")

> [Advanced] Nested Placement Groups

Reviewer: I don't think this is nested placement group: to me nested placement group means you create a child pg using the resources reserved by the parent pg.

Author: any good recommendatino for the title?

Author: I changed it

----------------------------------

By default, child actors/tasks don't share the same placement group that the parent uses.
If you'd like to automatically schedule child actors/tasks to the same placement group,
set ``placement_group_capture_child_tasks`` to True.

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_capture_child_tasks_example.py
      :language: python

.. tabbed:: Java

    It's not implemented for Java APIs yet.

When ``placement_group_capture_child_tasks`` is True, and if you'd like to avoid scheduling
child tasks/actors, you should specify the below option when you call child tasks/actors.

.. code-block:: python

  @ray.remote
  def parent():
      # In this case, the child task won't be
      # scheduled with the parent's placement group.
      ray.get(child.options(
          scheduling_strategy=PlacementGroupSchedulingStrategy(
              placement_group=None)).remote())

.. _placement-group-detached:

> [Advanced] Placement Group Lifetimes Control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Advanced] Detached Placement Group
```

--------------------------------------------

.. tabbed:: Python

    By default, the lifetimes of placement groups are not detached and will be destroyed
    when the driver is terminated (but, if it is created from a detached actor, it is
    killed when the detached actor is killed). If you'd like to keep the placement group
    alive regardless of its job or detached actor, you should specify
    `lifetime="detached"`. For example:

    .. code-block:: python

      # first_driver.py

>       pg = placement_group([{"CPU": 2}, {"CPU": 2}], strategy="STRICT_SPREAD", lifetime="detached")

Reviewer: also use the `name` option since you mentioned it below

      ray::PlacementGroup removed_placement_group = ray::GetPlacementGroup(placement_group.GetID());
      assert(removed_placement_group.GetState(), ray::PlacementGroupState::REMOVED);

.. _ray-placement-group-observability-ref:

Observe and Debug Placement Groups
----------------------------------

Ray provides several useful tools to inspect the placement group states and resource usage.

- **Ray Status** is a CLI tool to see the resource usage and the scheduling resource requirement of the placement groups.

> - **Ray Dashboard** is a UI tool to inspect placement group states.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Ray Dashboard** is a UI tool for inspecting placement group states.
```

> - **Ray State API** is a CLI to inspect placement group states.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Ray State API** is a CLI for inspecting placement group states.
```

.. tabbed:: ray status (CLI)

  The CLI command ``ray status`` provides the autoscaling status of the cluster. 
  It provides the "resource demands" from unscheduled placement groups as well as the resource reservation status.

  .. code-block:: bash

    Resources
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Usage:
    1.0/2.0 CPU (1.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
    0.0/2.0 GPU (0.0 used of 1.0 reserved in placement groups)
    0B/4.29GiB memory
    0B/2.00GiB object_store_memory

.. tabbed:: Dashboard

>   :ref:`The dashboard job view <dash-jobs-view>` provides the placement group table that displays the scheduling state and metadata of the placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The :ref:`dashboard job view <dash-jobs-view>` provides the placement group table that displays the scheduling state and metadata of the placement group.
```

  .. note::

>     Ray dashboard is only available when Ray is installed with ``pip install "ray[default]"``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Ray dashboard is only available when you install Ray is with ``pip install "ray[default]"``.
```

.. tabbed:: Ray State API

>   :ref:`Ray state API <state-api-overview-ref>` is a CLI tool to inspect the state of Ray resources (tasks, actors, placement groups, etc.). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :ref:`Ray state API <state-api-overview-ref>` is a CLI tool for inspecting the state of Ray resources (tasks, actors, placement groups, etc.). 
```

  ``ray list placement-groups`` provides the metadata and the scheduling state of the placement group.

>   ``ray list placement-groups --detail`` provides stats and scheduling state in a greater detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``ray list placement-groups --detail`` provides statistics and scheduling state in a greater detail.
```

  .. note::

>     State API is only available when Ray is installed with ``pip install "ray[default]"``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    State API is only available when you install Ray with ``pip install "ray[default]"``
```

Inspect Placement Group Scheduling State
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> From the above tools, you can see the state of the placement group. The definition of states are specified in the following files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the above tools, you can see the state of the placement group. The definition of states are specified in the following files:
```

- `High level state <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/03a9d2166988b16b7cbf51dac0e6e586455b28d8/src/ray/protobuf/gcs.proto#L579>`_
- `Details <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/03a9d2166988b16b7cbf51dac0e6e586455b28d8/src/ray/protobuf/gcs.proto#L524>`_

.. image:: ../images/pg_image_6.png
    :align: center

[Advanced] Child Tasks and Actors
---------------------------------

By default, child actors and tasks don't share the same placement group that the parent uses.

> If you'd like to automatically schedule child actors/tasks to the same placement group,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To automatically schedule child actors or tasks to the same placement group,
```

set ``placement_group_capture_child_tasks`` to True.

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_capture_child_tasks_example.py
      :language: python
      :start-after: __child_capture_pg_start__
      :end-before: __child_capture_pg_end__

.. tabbed:: Java

    It's not implemented for Java APIs yet.

When ``placement_group_capture_child_tasks`` is True, but you still don't want to schedule

> your child tasks and actors to the same placement group, you should specify ``PlacementGroupSchedulingStrategy(placement_group=None)``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
child tasks and actors to the same placement group, specify ``PlacementGroupSchedulingStrategy(placement_group=None)``.
```

      ray::PlacementGroup group = ray::GetPlacementGroup("non_global_name");
      assert(!group.Empty());

.. _placement-group-detached:

[Advanced] Detached Placement Group
-----------------------------------

By default, the lifetimes of placement groups belong to the driver and actor.

> - If the placement group is created from a driver, it will be destroyed when the driver is terminated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the placement group is created from a driver, it is destroyed when the driver is terminated.
```

    .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/placement_group_example.py
        :language: python
        :start-after: __detached_pg_start__
        :end-before: __detached_pg_end__

.. tabbed:: Java

    The lifetime argument is not implemented for Java APIs yet.

Let's terminate the current script and start a new Python script. Call ``ray list placement-groups``, and you can see the placement group is not removed.

Note that the lifetime option is decoupled from the name. If we only specified
the name without specifying ``lifetime="detached"``, then the placement group can
only be retrieved as long as the original driver is still running.
It is recommended to always specify the name when creating the detached placement group.

[Advanced] Fault Tolerance
--------------------------

.. _ray-placement-group-ft-ref:

Rescheduling Bundles on a Dead Node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If nodes that contain some bundles of a placement group die, all the bundles will be rescheduled on different nodes by 
GCS (i.e., we try reserving resources again). This means that the initial creation of placement group is "atomic", 
but once it is created, there could be partial placement groups. 

> Rescheduling bundles will have the higher scheduling priority than other placement group scheduling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rescheduling bundles have higher scheduling priority than other placement group scheduling.
```

Provide Resources for Partially Lost Bundles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If there are not enough resources to schedule the partially lost bundles, 
the placement group waits assuming Ray autoscaler will start a new node to satisfy the resource requirements. 

> If the additinoal resources cannot be provided (e.g., you don't use the autoscaler or the autoscaler hits the resource limit), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the additinoal resources cannot be provided (e.g., you don't use the Autoscaler or the Autoscaler hits the resource limit), 
```

> the placement group remains the partially created state indefinitely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the placement group remains in the partially created state indefinitely.
```

Fault Tolerance of Actors and Tasks that Use the Bundle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Actors/tasks that use the bundle (reserved resources) will be rescheduled based on their :ref:`fault tolerant policy <fault-tolerance>` once the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Actors and tasks that use the bundle (reserved resources) are rescheduled based on their :ref:`fault tolerant policy <fault-tolerance>` once the
```
